can those two people work together you
know like everyone takes for granted
that someone like me and someone like
durianrider can't work together right
and one of the reasons is and again I
sympathize durianrider doesn't want to
he doesn't even want to work with Kenya
Kenya I'm working on my pronunciation
people okay I'm working he doesn't want
to bridge the gap he wants a narrow
category of like-minded people to come
to a festival and while I sympathize I
would point out already that that is
really the opposite of activism that is
the opposite of political organization
because real political organization is
all about reaching out to people who are
fundamentally different from you so that
we can overcome this kind of isolation
this disorganized individual activism
and at least start by asking the
question of what can we do together so
one of the deep broad issues we have in
political philosophy is called the
fallacy of composition I say that and I
laugh because actually the meaning
associated with that phrase has really
changed just since 2008 the idea the
phrase has been around since forever and
actually there are a few different
technical phrases used talk about this
in economics what's arguably the very
first book in the history of
macroeconomics
a book called the fable of the bees
sounds like a children's storybook but
it's not it's a it's a treatise on
economics from hundreds of years ago the
fable of the bees by Bernard Mandeville
already introduced this fundamental
paradox paradox in the old-fashioned
sense of the word of the difference
between individual decisions that are
rational and social decisions on a
larger scale what the implications are
and what the effects are people can make
selfish decisions decisions that are
rational in their own interest that have
very negative consequences when they're
scaled up when millions of people are
doing instead of just one person doing
it and
can also make rational decisions that I
actually have a very beneficial and
positive social effect even though they
don't realize it that's not why they're
making the decision that's not the
outcome they're pursuing they're not
doing something charitably they maybe do
sing completely selfishly but that
really does have positive outcomes
now since 2008 this specific phrase the
fallacy of composition this is kind of
made a comeback in western economic
theory guy named Richard ku has a KU
spelled K oh oh by the way I'm not cou P
um Richard ku has actually kind of
reinvigorated the discourse around this
concept and applied it to the history of
the Great Depression 2008 crisis
Japanese economics and politics a number
of other things um so this is kind of
really or relative obscurity with new
debates surrounding the the concept now
in veganism or in any other form of
political action so ecology or
anything else you want to talk about
it's very tempting to just say hey you
follow your passion hey that's that can
be terrible advice
anyone watching this even if you are 16
years old you probably have enough
experience in life to know there are
some situations where telling somebody
just follow your passion is terrible
advice
depends on who the person is depends on
what their passion is and then when you
scale it up you're talking about a whole
lot of people following their passions
maybe this is gonna lead to terrible
consequences but I do sympathise with on
a subjective and human and personal
level you look at a guy like for
instance a vegan nut he's a he's a vegan
activist who's making fun of himself by
calling his channel vegan nut he's a guy
in Toronto he's obviously very unhappy
about you know meat eating fur being the
animals being killed to produce fur on
codes especially and he does a totally
idiosyncratic form of activism he goes
out and confronts people what the
and so on and it's really tempting to
look at that say hey look this guy is
highly motivated this is his personal
passion that's his project he obviously
finds this satisfying so okay this is
the activism he should do um now both
when you scale this up in terms the
number of people and when you expand the
focus chronologically over time so
instead of looking at one guy in one
year you're looking at a few hundred
people or a few thousand people over ten
years that's when it really gets tricky
that's when you have to say now and this
may be different for whatever city
you're living in like if you were living
in Paris in the early 1990s you'd be in
a situation where were virtually the
only form of animal rights activism and
you know anti meat activism vegan
activism like that scene was dominated
by anti-fur activism and it really
became like a joke in the mainstream
media it was like you know what well
these people seem to only care about the
fur industry and you know there's all
these antics of showing up at fashion
shows and throwing red paint at people
this became a high-profile cause well in
many ways the other components of having
a meaningful social movement just we're
not there now still I sympathize like
you know there are people where you know
like this one guy that's the thing that
motivates them that's that what they
find rewarding and maybe also that's the
tension in their lives living in that
city like maybe living in downtown
Toronto that's the one thing that really
leaps out to him that he feels he needs
to speak to her needs to react to is
people wearing fur
but again scale it up and broaden it in
time is he still gonna be motivated and
rewarded by doing that let's say if he
continues working alone because most of
document it's just him at a camera doing
this one on one is he gonna do that for
five years is he gonna do that for ten
years maybe most people will not most
people will start questioning the same
things that have been discussed so much
on this channel what is effective
activism how can I make a real
difference
how can I get organized other people how
can I do something more meaningful with
more long-term impact with my time even
if for one year they find that really
rewarding no obvious I'm just using him
as an example and this is just one
example you could be living in a place
where you know when you scale it up
everyone locally is obsessed with just
fur and you gotta say well wait why is
nobody tackling milk you could be living
in a place where everyone's obsessed
with vivisection and nobody's addressing
the other issues you could be living in
a place where it's Tigers or elephants
or whales here where I live people seem
to care a lot about whales and maybe
maybe nothing else they don't care about
cows or pigs you know obviously you as a
human being individually you can't do
everything
maybe you can do nothing I mean really
some people you have a full-time job and
you have kids and you have a heart
condition you know you have health
problems and your your grandparents are
in and out of the retirement home and
they need you to come help them you know
real life is where it is you may be very
very limited what you can do mentally
emotionally in terms of time commitments
I can relate to all that mmm but if
nobody is making these decisions
strategically if there is no
organization if you just have a thousand
people with a thousand YouTube channels
and a thousand individual websites or
individual blogs and each of them is
just going out and pursuing their own
passion which may be as I say like this
guy in Toronto maybe just walking up to
a stranger on the street saying hey why
are you wearing a fur coat you know I'm
not hating on the guy he finds it really
rewarding his passion justifies that
form of activism for him at this time
you know for him I'm sure there's no
other justification even if there were
no other outcomes or what have you but
you scale that up and you get into this
economic concept the fallacy of
composition like okay so each of you
people individually is making a decision
that's rational
for you it makes sense for you today but
when we look at a thousand people over
10 years then we look back and say man
this was not even ten percent as
effective as it could have been if there
have been any kind of strategy if there
have been any kind of organization I
don't care what city you live in okay if
you're in a democracy whether it's
Germany or the United States if you
actually have a thousand people
organized you can take on City Hall you
can I took on City Hall with one other
guy we think this huge impact was Diggle
was a two-man team and the other guy was
not reliable I didn't want to talk about
that in a video but a man at one point
he just disappeared for three months and
you know I didn't even ask I assumed
like he had a serious problem with his
girlfriend or something like sometimes
people disappear you know enough about
their life to just not ask and then when
he really ma'am what happened to you
I've been working so hard on this
project at City Hall was ecological
activism and like he had just gotten
stoned you just been using drugs and
like right there was like well man my
faith in you my ability to cooperate
with you my ability to commit my time
and effort to this project has just been
cut in half because you've just they
made to me you're the kind of person
who's gonna flake out and disappear at
any time for no good reason like you
know because you're a marijuana smoker
so like right there in many ways from
that moment my professional relationship
with him like in terms of politics or
what-have-you friendship and everything
else
there was a there was a limit put on it
and you know looking back I was right to
do that it's like well this isn't
somebody I can rely on this isn't
somebody I can really work with yeah you
know what I've taken on universities the
small numbers of people at a project U
of T there were like two other people
involved so like a team of three people
we got funding backing us there were
different kind of things in our favor
but the big turn key event with that
remember was an article I wrote and that
article really it was a criticism of
what was going wrong in one academic
department and that really got taken up
and discussed by the people in charged
that department and there was
fundraising
and the campaign to influence the
political decisions going outside the
university and universities in Canada
are 0% Democratic there's no democracy
there's no transparency but still even
in that environment that was actually
really effective activism and we really
made a difference that had tremendous
long-term implications and yeah really
it was me and two other people say look
I mentioned these this is like compared
to what people talk about on YouTube
these are very unconventional examples
of political actors but really this is
quite conventional really this is pen
and paper political organization going
to City Hall going to the dean's office
whatever and making making some kind of
a difference but what I'm pointing to
here is the contrast between
organization and passion and it's a
wonderful thing to be able to say to
people just follow your passion if
you're passionate about fur just do fur
but the contrast is to say look you're
following your passion but we need to
get organized and if we don't do that we
won't even know what potential were
squandering we won't know what we're
missing out on do we have a hundred
people do we have a thousand people do
we have just five people let's let's
figure that out you know maybe you are
continuing with your passion project
whether that's fur or save the whales or
a local forest conservation boy I mean
for some huge issue that apparently I'm
the only person in veganism to care
about there's so much talk about you
know bikinis and bicycles and so rare to
see people talking before Stephan anyway
I digress um okay that's what you're
working on but can we at least take an
inventory who are the other five or ten
people living in this city who are vegan
or who share some core ecologic lenders
and can we do something together can we
start to plan what's possible and again
you're explaining the number of people
and it's also the amount of time are we
talking about five years we're talking
about ten years because if all we do is
work in a totally isolated way
one man with one camera on the sidewalk
harassing people who wear fur what does
that get you five years from now what
does that accomplish five years down the
road and they look I mean the two funny
examples from my own life I just
mentioned one at City Hall once at the
University uh one of them did
effectively challenge went to the
mayor's office and so on he did
effectively challenge a fossil fuel
burning power plant and it at least
delayed that project for many years we
had an impact on the planning of a
number of you know ecologically
sensitive projects with no budget with
no lawyers two guys and both of us were
busy though I was still a university
student and so on and as I mentioned
that that lobbying within university
Anto that ended up creating a new a new
department I was gonna say technically a
new program a new academic program and
with a budget and hiring a new professor
and so on so mmm and it also got the
university to wake up and recognize its
shortcomings in in a department that
already existed but they said wow you
know we're listing courses that don't
exist which is fraud legally speaking
they could have I could have taken them
to court in theory but that would have
cost money so what I did actually ended
up addressing that problem without
without a lawsuit quite possibly they
were motivated to change because of the
the indirect threat or possibility of a
lawsuit look the other big issue here so
I've talked about organization versus
passion fallacy of composition on this
channel I say explicitly veganism is for
everyone and organizing at this kind
whether it's just with five people or 50
people is going to involve brain
together people of really contrasting
characters of really contrasting
political values it's going to involve
people who vote for Donald Trump working
together with people who voted for Obama
or whatever example people who are right
wing and left wing people who are
Christian and people who are atheist
even though we all have our limits I've
talked about that at some length there's
an earlier video I made that I
still really holds up I'm gonna provide
a link below and I'll guess I'll put in
a link floating above my head here -
it's a video that has anti-capitalism in
the name so you may not realize it's
relevant when it's out here but just
it's a long video but just in the first
five minutes of that video you'll see
that what I say there is very much
relevant to what I'm saying here and now
in this video I am NOT durianrider
somebody like durianrider and this is to
his credit is open about the fact that
he wants to spend time with like-minded
people he set up a festival in Thailand
not to operate like petaa people with
Ethical Treatment animals not to operate
like the Green Party and not to operate
like what I described in that earlier
video that link to not to be for
everyone he said openly he doesn't want
to spend time with flaky people he only
wants to spend time with like-minded
athletes and that's why he's redefined
that festival to be a cycling festival
to exclude people who are not athletes
and he wants to exclude everyone who
disagrees with him even about dietary
choices he wants a narrow focus he wants
to just meet up and have a kind of party
or celebration with like-minded people
now I could member complaining in the
past - this is IIIi really sympathize he
said that he didn't want people coming
to that festival who were drug users
you know I assume you know marijuana and
other soft drugs be very very common in
Chiangmai tourists to go to Thailand
generally the rate of drug use is very
very high for all drugs including the
Chiang Mai that part of Thailand that's
the great homeland of opium it's like
one of the world capitals for opium
tours and heroin tourism people go there
from all around the world to use hard
drugs also not just soft drugs so I
assume at some point he got upset about
that - the people were coming to his
festival who were not his type of guys
in all these different ways and I can
sympathize of that that's his mandate so
the latest controversy came out of that
is that he's banned Kenya Hania from
Israel very prominent vegan activist
no given that that's whose stated
objective I can sympathize but my stated
concerns objectives are at the opposite
extreme where I'm saying to people again
and again as in that earlier video I'm
linking to if veganism is for everyone
then the challenge is to work together
with people whom you are profoundly
alienated from where it's not a trivial
difference of you like to ride a bicycle
and I like to ride a motorcycle where
you know it's not the difference between
one who's more athletic and less
athletic where it really is a difference
between someone who is a conservative
Catholic let's say a right-wing Catholic
but who is vegan and let's say they care
a lot about forest habitats and wild
animals and at the opposite extreme
someone who is a hippie atheist vegan
whose whole idea of veganism really
centers around pet ownership they don't
care about the forest let's say because
this is quite common today you meet many
vegans let's say what they really care
about is the mistreatment of house pets
you know at local controversies where
somebody is not taking care of their dog
properly and you know going to the
authorities and reporting someone for
leaving their dog in the yard there are
vegans to do this who are watching in
their neighborhood you know the
conditions of people's dogs and whether
or not they're chained up properly this
kind of thing can those two people work
together you know like everyone takes
for granted that someone like me and
someone like durianrider can't work
together right one of the reasons is and
again I sympathize durianrider doesn't
want to he doesn't even want to work
with Kenya Kenya I'm working on my
pronunciation people okay I'm working um
he doesn't want to bridge the gap he
wants a narrow category of like-minded
people to come to a festival and while I
sympathize I would point out already
that that is really the opposite of
activist
that is the opposite of political
organization because real political
organization is all about reaching out
to people who are fundamentally
different from you so that we can
overcome this kind of isolation this
disorganized individual activism and at
least start by asking the question of
what can we do together and that's not
to invalidate what you can do yes you
may be going out in the street and
confronting people who are wearing fur
and that may be very rewarding for you
but okay now that we just have five
people or ten people together and now
that we're looking ahead to the next ten
years
like look folks we're all gonna grow old
all this stuff is gonna get boring after
you've done that scene protest five
times it doesn't feel the same anymore
even protests that I really sympathize
with you want to protest in front of a
restaurant about foie gras you want to
go to the the Toronto Pig save you want
to protest at the slaughterhouse and
witness the pigs in the truck going to
be executed I'm sure it's very
meaningful and very moving the first
time how do you feel about it the tenth
time okay you're if you're watching this
and you're sixteen years old ten years
from now you're gonna be 26 if you're
watching this you're thirty five ten
years making me forty five you want to
do that again and again in a dead-end
way or you want to get organized you
want to what can we do and what are we
looking at in the next ten years I don't
have hate in my heart towards
durianrider and freely as characters I
really don't people who talk to me
personally know that and I've had
conversations people where I talk a lot
about the positive side of what they're
doing somebody asked me once like what I
thought they were planning for the
future like what their what their scheme
was for like where they were going to
take the tie for a festival and I said
honestly you know what part of what
makes them charming is that I don't
think they have a plan at all I I said
at that time as couple months ago I said
I don't think they've even reserved like
a musical group like a band to play at
the next time forward vessel I don't
think they even booked like a restaurant
like I think they show up at the last
minute and they just do their thing and
hang out and those are the kind of
people they are and there's a certain
kind of charm to that and I'm sure a lot
of people are drawn to the genuineness
and
warmth and relax and formality of that
but that does not look anything like an
animal rights conference that does not
look anything like even a meeting of the
Green Party and believe me the Green
Party is not an inspiring example no
that is nothing like a political
organization getting mobilized for the
future and look I'm not going to talk
about in this video but the other thing
to remember is when you're looking at
current or recent past history you do
not want to be imitating organizations
that are a failure
Steve best who is much more radical than
I am um
people think I'm radical because I want
to do more than just you know promote
bikinis and bicycles and lifestyle
activism I want real meaningful
political engagement Steve best is
always comparing himself to extreme
communist groups you know like the
Zapatistas in Mexico well communism was
a failure this is 2016 it's face up to
it folks the zapatistas specifically
were a failure rebel group that began
with a slogan of death to the landlord's
not joking can look it up that was their
political slogan and now you in the 21st
century you want to take that as the
model for your activism
it began with violence and stupidity
ended in failure and didn't accomplish
anything impressive in between that's
what you're taking is your model for
vegan activism to me that's like your
shame on you it's pathetic ah I keep
using these boring examples by contrast
of saying like look how did people make
nicotine into what it is to how do we
transform the anti-smoking movement we
did partly because even though the
comparison is imperfect of course it is
all comparisons are odious it's not
exactly the same thing people don't
generally quit smoking for ethical
reasons some do but most don't I mean
you know most is just health concerns or
what-have-you but you know that
transformation of tobacco one of the
reasons to look at it is simply because
it has been successful it is being
successful and that in itself is worth
thinking about it's certainly not easy
for me like in Canada right now to point
to any example like the Green Party or
Greenpeace
and say we can we can imitate that
success I can't point to petaa People
for the Ethical Treatment of Animals and
say let's imitate that success but look
in this video I was just trying to raise
this one relatively simple point though
there's so much to say about it but the
difference between making decisions as
an isolated individual increasing the
scale increasing the scope and time and
starting to think about what we can
accomplish and that does ultimately take
a certain degree of self-discipline
detachment and selflessness we are not
just thinking about yourself you're not
just thinking about the next video we're
gonna raise on YouTube you're not just
thinking about what you're gonna put in
your blog or how you're gonna get more
followers you're thinking about how am I
gonna lead a meaningful life how am I
can have an impact on this society how
am I gonna be a meaningful part of the
city I'm living in and some of you guys
are watching this from Thailand
if you live in Chiang Mai do you know
the name of the mayor do you know the
name of the governor if you're watching
this in New York you probably do if
you're a New Yorker but you know being
cut off from local political reality
this is a further form of isolation that
I'm asking you to challenge in yourself
not everybody comes out of a political
science background one of the reasons
why I do what I do here on YouTube is
that I know I have something different
to offer from other people not everybody
has read Aristotle not everybody has
read Karl Marx not everybody can come on
camera and give sarcastic opinions about
these things all right I can but in this
critique the critique itself the purpose
is not negative the purpose is to
positively motivate you to make that
difference